Let's cover Angular component
testing fundamentals.
And it is interesting to me that when
I start talking about component of
an architecture,
I get really excited because I think it's
just incredibly important how you
architect your application and
just the implications that it has a very
high level isreally compelling to me.
And I think you cannot overstate
the importance of having good component
architecture in your application.
Now, the funny thing is, when I start
talking about Angular testing that.
I do not get as excited.
I think most people when they think of
testing, they just kind of freeze up.
And at the same time, I have kind of
almost the opposite reaction of talking
about testing versus component
driven architecture,
but it is equally as important.
And when you look at an application,
and you say, well, how does this work?
An answer of well, it hasn't broke is not
really acceptable because there will
be a time it too in the morning,
or, a hacker comes in and
something bad happens and
then it becomes a huge problem.
And so, when you're building applications,
the question is
really how do you know anything and
the answer is with feedback loops.
That when you're building an application,
like a proof of concept
that it's important to
test your application.
But I would not say do unit testing
at the onset because you
don't want you're building.
You're doing user testing.
It's very high touch, it's very analogue.
But then once you've validated what
you're building, then you start to build
out your unit tests and
that becomes very, very important.
And then once everything
starts to come together,
then you start to add
in end to end testing.
So you start to test these units or
these features in conjunction.
And so it's really,
really important to make testing
a first class citizen and
a part of your development process.
And I would be willing to
bet a lot of money that
as you're watching this, if I asked you,
what is your test coverage
of the application you
are working on right now?
And I imagine that some people are saying,
well, it's 80%.
And to that, I applaud you,
that's amazing.
Most of the time,
I kinda get this embarrassed like that,
we're working on it.
And part of that is because one,
I think teams haven't doubled down.
It really made it just a mandatory
part of their development process.
But secondly, and this is what
I really want to touch on, is,
when you talk about testing, you have
to talk about the code you're testing.
And the reason why most people do not
test is because it's really hard.
The reason why it's really
hard is because, well, one,
life is hard, complicated,
programming is hard and complicated.
But, because there's this diversion off
of kinda these fundamental programmatic
principles I see a lot
of code that the reason
why they don't have unit test is
because it's impossible to test.
And so one of my favourite saying is
there's not enough time in the world to
write good tests for bad code.
And so I just really encourage you as
we go into this module, think about
testing not just on from a testing
perspective is this isolated activity.
But really think about it in
the context of the code that you write.
And if you write clean, good code,
if you write fine grain code that does
one very specific thing and it's well
defined it's a lot easier, to write test.
And so that's just a bit of a precursor,
that when you think about testing, also,
be diligent about the code
that you're writing.
Because, what will happen is you'll
create technical debt in your code.
And then it's very, very hard,
to test in most teams just to like,
I give up, and
then you get this technical debt.
And then how they solve that
is they feel like, well, if I
just switch to this new fancy framework,
everything is going to be solved.
And I've seen time and time again,
you have a team on Angular, and
they're just like, well, if I burn it down
and do it and react, things will be fine.
And then it doesn't go well.
So then they burn it down and
go to View and back.
Is that testing should be
a first class citizen.
But clean code is the Emperor.
It is the king write clean code,
and it's much easier to write test.
All right, so with that said,
let's talk about
testing as it pertains to Angular.
So we hop into this code,
one thing that we can just
point out right away.
And so I'm going to close down these files
here is whenever you generate a component.
So let's look at this users
component we just generated.
That it generated not only the component,
but it generated the spec for
the component.
And so you get this working
test right out of the gates.
And so they've done a really
nice job of making it easy
to write tests by saying,
here's a working test for this component.
Now what we need to do is what I would
like to do is step through the spec and
talk about the pieces here and
what is happening and
what each part in the spec
that they've generated does.
So I think it'd be very easy to just say,
I've got this test, we're good.
But it's really important to dig down and
check out and
understand, like,
what are these pieces doing?
And so, the first thing that
I want to point out is, and I'm just gonna
kind of comment this out real quick.
Or pieces of this.
And we're going to go through
this kind of step by step, and
I'm going to unpack what's
happening in this component.
So the first piece of
this is the test bed.
And so, the test bed,
let me comment this as well.
The test bed right here is,
this is essentially
the the context or
the the mechanism responsible for
creating the environment for
your test to run.
So this is like the single most
important piece when you're testing
angular components.
And It's responsible for
essentially booting up or
configuring or essentially setting up
a very controlled Angular environment for
you to run your test in.
And so if we look here,
I'm gonna come out of this line as well,
so we can just focus on this,
TestBed.configureTestingModule.
And so what this does is this
gives you an opportunity to create
a very specific module for
you to run or test your component in.
And so, you want to run this in a before
each block before all of your tests.
So before you run your test
what you're doing is you're saying
testbed configure testing module.
And you're setting up essentially
an Angular module for your component,
or your service or whatever it is to
live in, so that you can test it.
And so we're saying
Testbed.configureTestingModule.
And I want to declare this user component.
Well, that's pretty interesting,
because if we go over to our app module,
let's look at that.
Entry module declarations,users component,
so here it is.
Same thing is we're declaring that
we want to test this component.
Now, the next piece to this is,
now that we've
configured the module is that
we need to create a fixture.
And so a fixture essentially creates
an instance of the component to test and
then it returns this in a test
fixture that you can then start to do
some interesting things in and
access that component that you've created.
Because you have the testing module or
the testbed which creates the module, and
then within that, then you can create
a fixture that has an instance
of that component that you can
start to manipulate and access.
So, We have fixture,
component fixture up at the top here.
And let's start to unpack this a bit more.
So we're saying, configure the testing
module, then compile the components.
But if we go down into the second
before each block, and
I'll explain why there's two.
Is we're calling fixture Testbed.
Create usersComponent.
So what it's doing is it's returning a
testbed with an instance of that component
within the testbed that you can access.
So we're saying fissure is a component
fissure with a user component in it.
And so now We're saying
testbed create component and
return me the users component.
And then what we can do is
we can access the component
by calling fixture.componentInstance.
And what this does now is we now
have an instance of this component
that we can start to access,
and we can manipulate, and
we can call methods on, and
we can test, and we start to do this.
So now, this testing piece
has done a really good job of
saying I'm allowing you to create
a very specific module to run this in.
And I'm going to allow you
to create this component
in isolation so
that you can start to work with.
And so, with the testbed that
We have created a module,
we've created a fixture using
Testbed.createComponent.
And then by calling
fixture.componentInstance,
we now have an instance of that component.
So now, for instance,
if I go here, and I created
a title property I could say Hello Users.
Now within
the Spec here,
I can say it should have a title or
should have the correct title.
Then we'll create a federal function.
We'll go here.
Close this out.
And now what we can do is we
can say expect component.title.
And so you saw it already picked that up.
To be, Hello.
Users.
There we go.
And so let's go ahead and
Let's just go ahead and run these tests.
And let's see what happens.
So I'm going to go here.
And from the command line,
you just do NPM run test.
And this is going to spin
up the karma test runner.
So you get this for free.
And it's just going to run so
you can see it's launching a browser.
And, This should work but possibly not.
So, as we've been coding.
We have run into a bunch of stuff,
but here we go.
Let's focus on this one right here.
So, obviously got a couple failing test,
but more importantly this one right here.
Expected Hello Users to be fail.
So let's fix this one.
So we'll go back into our code and
We'll change this to Hello Users.
Let's go back here.
And, now that should be gone perfect.
And so we'll actually fix these in just
moment while they're here, so this is also
kind of going to get into something
that's what we'll talk about in a moment.
But let's keep going just
a little bit further down this.
And we're gonna focus on this component,
and
then we'll kind of go in and
I can show you how to fix
kind of the rest of those tests because
you will run into this quite a bit.
So when you're running a test,
configure the module, create the fixture
and then get the component instance.
Now, this is done for
you kinda get this for free.
So it's really easy to kind of just
not think about the what's actually
happening but
that is the sequence of the events.